RCW 42.56 — Public Records Act
Source: https://app.leg.wa.gov/rcw/default.aspx?cite=42.56

RCW 42.56.001 — Intent
The people of this state do not yield their sovereignty to the agencies that serve them. The people, in delegating authority, do not give their public servants the right to decide what is good for the people to know and what is not good for them to know. The people insist on remaining informed so that they may retain control over the instruments they have created.

RCW 42.56.070 — Documents available for public inspection and copying
Every agency, in accordance with published rules, shall make available for public inspection and copying all public records, unless the record falls within the specific exemptions of subsection (8) of this section, this chapter, or other statute which exempts or prohibits disclosure of specific information or records.

RCW 42.56.080 — Requests for public records
Public records shall be available for inspection and copying, and agencies shall, upon request for identifiable public records, make them promptly available to any person. Agencies shall not distinguish among persons requesting records and shall not require a statement of purpose for a records request.

RCW 42.56.100 — Costs of providing copies
Agencies may charge a fee for providing copies of public records. The fee shall not exceed the actual cost of reproduction, including the cost of the medium on which the record is reproduced.

RCW 42.56.210 — Certain personal information exempt
The following personal information is exempt from public inspection and copying: personal information in files maintained for employees, appointees, or elected officials of any agency to the extent that disclosure would violate their right to privacy.

RCW 42.56.550 — Judicial review
Upon the motion of any person having been denied an opportunity to inspect or copy a public record by an agency, the superior court in the county in which a record is maintained may require the responsible agency to show cause why it has refused a records request.

Demo questions this content supports:
- What does Washington law say about public records?
- Can agencies charge for public records?
- What information is exempt from public records requests?
- What section discusses public records?
